When I'm building a machine
learning system, I've found that,
thinking through the
Machine Learning project
lifecycle is
a effective way
for me to plan out
all the steps that
I need to work on.
When you are working on
Machine Learning system,
I think you'll find too
that this framework allows
you to plan out all the
important things you
need to do in order
to get the system to
work and also to
minimize surprises.
Let's dive in. These are
the major steps of a
Machine Learning project.
First is scoping,
in which you have
to define the project or
decide what to work on.
What exactly do you want to
apply Machine Learning to,
and what is X and what is Y.
After having chosen the project,
you then have to collect data or
acquire the data you
need for your algorithm.
This includes defining the data
and establishing a baseline,
and then also labeling
and organizing the data.
There are some best practices for
this that are non-intuitive
that you learn more about
later in this week.
After you have your data,
you then have to train the model.
During the model phase,
you have to select and train
the model and also
perform error analysis.
You might know that
Machine Learning
is often a highly iterative task.
During the process
of error analysis,
you may go back and
update the model,
or you may also go back
to the earlier phase
and decide you need to
collect more data as well.
As part of error analysis
before taking a system
to deployments,
I'll often also carry
out a final check,
maybe a final audit,
to make sure that the system's
performance is good enough
and that it's sufficiently
reliable for the application.
Sometimes, an engineer
thinks that when you
deploy a system, you're done.
I now tell most people,
when you deploy a system
for the first time,
you are maybe about halfway
to the finish line,
because it's often only after you
turn on live traffic
that you then
learn the second half of
the important lessons
needed in order to get the
system to perform well.
To carry out the deployment step,
you have to deploy
it in production,
write the software needed to
put into production,
Then also monitor the system,
track the data that
continues to come in,
and maintain the system.
For example, if the data
distribution changes,
you may need to update the model.
After the initial deployment,
maintenance will often
mean going back to
perform more error analysis
and maybe retrain the model,
or it might mean taking
the data you get back.
Now that the system is deployed
and is running on live data,
and feeding that back into
your dataset to then
potentially update your data,
retrain the model, and
so on until you can put
an updated model into deployment.
I found this framework useful for
a very large variety of
Machine Learning projects.
From computer vision,
to audio data,
to structure data, to
many other applications.
Feel free to take a screenshot of
this image and use it with
your friends or by yourself to
plan out your Machine
Learning project as well.
Thanks also to learning AIs,
Steven Layett and
Daniel Pipryata,
who were instrumental to
developing this diagram.
In this video, we
quickly went through
the machine learning
project lifecycle in order
to deepen our understanding of
this project lifecycle or be
useful to walk through
a concrete example.
In the next video,
let's step through what
these different steps of
machine learning project
lifecycle look like in
the context of a speech
recognition application.
Let's go on to the next video.